HAI 2017 Papers

Reviews of submission #148: "Regulating Highly Automated Robot Ecologies:
Insights from Three User Studies"

------------------------ Submission 148, Review 4 ------------------------

Reviewer:           primary
Overall rating:     4  (scale is 1..5; 5 is best)

Overall Rating

   4  (Probably accept: I would argue for accepting this paper.)

Expertise

   3  (Knowledgeable)

The Review for External/Secondary AC or the Meta Review for Primary AC

   All the three reviewers had positive evaluations for the paper in the
   sense of the well done user studies on highly automated robot ecologies
   (HARE).

   R1 and R3 suggest the the authors should provide with more elaborate
   discussions about the experiment results. Moreover, R2 suggests that the
   authors should discuss relationships between the concept in the paper and
   shared autonomy. This elaboration will heighten  the quality of the
   paper.


------------------------ Submission 148, Review 3 ------------------------

Reviewer:           secondary
Overall rating:     5  (scale is 1..5; 5 is best)

Overall Rating

   5  (Definite accept: I would argue strongly for accepting this paper.)

Expertise

   2  (Passing Knowledge)

The Review for External/Secondary AC or the Meta Review for Primary AC

   Indeed, the control of future agent societies is a core task as we move
   into the age of autonomous robots and technical systems. That is also the
   topic of the paper - Regulating highly automated robot ecologies (HARE).

   The theoretical background is well presented and interesting, drawing on
   concepts such as mechanism design, supervisory control, and human-swarm
   interaction.

   Furthermore, the empirical study with “micro-worlds” is sound.

   However, the text would gain if the purpose of the paper was more
   explicitly stated, based on the theories already presented in the text.

   Further to the above, I am missing a more elaborate discussion/conclusion
   combining results and theories.

   In general I consider this to be a high quality submission.


------------------------ Submission 148, Review 1 ------------------------

Reviewer:           external
Overall rating:     5  (scale is 1..5; 5 is best)

Overall Rating

   5  (Definite accept: I would argue strongly for accepting this paper.)

Expertise

   3  (Knowledgeable)

The Review for External/Secondary AC or the Meta Review for Primary AC

   I strongly recommend accepting this article. The article contains three
   interesting and well done studies about highly automated robot ecologies
   (HARE). The result was that adaptive robot autonomy, decision support and
   regulator power can each diminish the outcomes in HARE. A simple robot
   autonomy coupled with limited regulatory power was leading to the best
   results. 
   Suggestions for revisions:
   My suggestion is to elaborate and discuss more deeply why adaptive robot
   autonomy, decision support and regulator power can each diminish the
   outcomes in HARE. Hypothetically speaking, are these outcomes dependent
   on certain circumstances in the experiments? If the answer is yes, which
   circumstances? Or are these outcomes a more general finding? If the
   answer is yes, why does this happen?



------------------------ Submission 148, Review 2 ------------------------

Reviewer:           external
Overall rating:     4  (scale is 1..5; 5 is best)

Overall Rating

   4  (Probably accept: I would argue for accepting this paper.)

Expertise

   3  (Knowledgeable)

The Review for External/Secondary AC or the Meta Review for Primary AC

   The authors present two case studies for the interaction between a set of
   autonomous agents and a human regulator in optimizing load balancing
   problems. Overall the paper is well written and easy to read. It provides
   a thorough analysis of the studied problem and explains the results well.
   One weaker point is the limited approach to the concept of "regulatory
   power" which is confined to the number of external parameter changes. It
   would also be conceivable to change the parameter adaptation or other
   control parameters of the robots which in turn may then cooperate better
   for the optimization task at hand. At least the studies reveal that a too
   simple approach is not successful for optimal synergy between human
   controller and autonomous agent. Basically they were not designed for
   cooperation.

   The authors could make reference to the recent work on "shared autonomy"
   where the optimal responsibility distribution between human and robot is
   investigated. A nice recent example with adaptive agents is:

   Stefanos Nikolaidis, Yu Xiang Zhu, David Hsu, and
   Siddhartha Srinivasa. 2017. Human-Robot Mutual
   Adaptation in Shared Autonomy. Proc. Conf. on Human
   Robot Interaction, Vienna (2017).

   Another older example with a related investigation is:
   Johnson, M., Bradshaw, J. M., Feltovich, P., Jonker, C., van Riemsdijk,
   B., & Sierhuis, M. (2012). Autonomy and interdependence in
   human-agent-robot teams. IEEE Intelligent Systems, 27(2), 43-51.



